@subsubsection Ocarina.Builder.AADL.Components.Modes 
This package provides functions to handle modes in the component
implementations.

This package defines the following subprograms:

@strong{Add_Property_Association}: Add a property association to the mode declaration or mode
transition. Mode must either reference a mode declaration or a
mode transition. Property_Association references the property
association. Return True if everything went right, else False.

@example
@b{function }Add_Property_Association
     (Mode : Node_Id;
      Property_Association : Node_Id)
     @b{return }Boolean;
@end example


@strong{Add_New_Mode}: Add a new mode declaration into a component implementation. Loc
is the location of the mode declaration in the parsed
text. Identifier references an identifier containing the name
of the mode. Component references the component
implementation. Is_Implicit is used by other parts of the
builder API, for "in modes" clauses. You should always keep it
False. Return a Node_Id referencing the newly created mode if
everything went right, else False.

@example
@b{function }Add_New_Mode
     (Loc : Location;
      Identifier : Node_Id;
      Component : Node_Id)
     @b{return }Node_Id;
@end example


@strong{Add_New_Mode_Transition}: Add a new empty mode transition into a component
implementation. Source, Destination, etc. of the mode
transition must be added manually after the node has been
created. Loc is the location of the mode transition in the
parsed text. Identifier references an identifier containing the
name of the mode. Component references the component
implementation. Return a Node_Id referencing the newly created
mode if everything went right, else False.

@example
@b{function }Add_New_Mode_Transition
     (Loc : Location;
      Component : Node_Id)
     @b{return }Node_Id;
@end example


@strong{Add_New_Mode_Transition_Trigger}: 

@example
@b{function }Add_New_Mode_Transition_Trigger
     (Loc : Locations.Location;
      Identifier : Types.Node_Id;
      Is_Self : Boolean;
      Is_Process@b{or }: Boolean)
     @b{return }Types.Node_Id;
@end example


