@smallexample

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-- @i{                                                                         --}
-- @i{                         PolyORB HI COMPONENTS                           --}
-- @i{                                                                         --}
-- @i{      P O L Y O R B _ H I . T R A N S P O R T _ L O W _ L E V E L        --}
-- @i{                                                                         --}
-- @i{                                S p e c                                  --}
-- @i{                                                                         --}
-- @i{              Copyright (C) 2006-2009, GET-Telecom Paris.                --}
-- @i{                                                                         --}
-- @i{PolyORB HI is free software; you  can  redistribute  it and/or modify it --}
-- @i{under terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free   --}
-- @i{Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option) any later.    --}
-- @i{PolyORB HI is distributed  in the hope that it will be useful, but       --}
-- @i{WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY;  without even the implied warranty of              --}
-- @i{MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General --}
-- @i{Public License for more details. You should have received  a copy of the --}
-- @i{GNU General Public  License  distributed with PolyORB HI; see file       --}
-- @i{COPYING. If not, write  to the Free  Software Foundation, 51 Franklin    --}
-- @i{Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02111-1301, USA.                         --}
-- @i{                                                                         --}
-- @i{As a special exception,  if other files  instantiate  generics from this --}
-- @i{unit, or you link  this unit with other files  to produce an executable, --}
-- @i{this  unit  does not  by itself cause  the resulting  executable  to  be --}
-- @i{covered  by the  GNU  General  Public  License.  This exception does not --}
-- @i{however invalidate  any other reasons why  the executable file  might be --}
-- @i{covered by the  GNU Public License.                                      --}
-- @i{                                                                         --}
-- @i{               PolyORB HI is maintained by GET Telecom Paris             --}
-- @i{                                                                         --}
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-- @i{ Transport low-level service of PolyORB HI, interact with actual}
-- @i{ transport interface.}

@b{with} PolyORB_HI.Errors;
@b{with} PolyORB_HI.Streams;
@b{with} PolyORB_HI_Generated.Deployment;

@b{package} PolyORB_HI.Transport_Low_Level @b{is}

   @b{pragma} Elaborate_Body;

   @b{use} PolyORB_HI.Errors;
   @b{use} PolyORB_HI.Streams;
   @b{use} PolyORB_HI_Generated.Deployment;

   @b{procedure} Initialize;
   -- @i{ Initialize Transport facility}

   @b{function} Send (Node : Node_Type; Message : Stream_Element_Array)
     @b{return} Error_Kind;
   -- @i{ Send Message}

@b{end} PolyORB_HI.Transport_Low_Level;

@end smallexample
